All right, so in the last lesson, we started implementing this method to give us some idea of whether
or not our get random number method is capable of generating unique random numbers within the range
of roughly like one through 10 or technically right now, I guess it's able to check zero through 10
for the time being.
And the way that it's doing that is by simply using an array of currently an array of 11 elements numbered
zero through 10.
And any time the method get random number generator, a number presumably between zero and 10, we just
put a one in the element with that same index number.
OK, so as you see here, these would be the index numbers of the array.
This would be the array.
OK?
And these would be the values example values that we could potentially be storing in those elements,
right?
So every time we get random number, generator number between in this case, zero through 11, if it
generates one of those numbers, we access that particular element.
And then we saw a one in that element.
And then down here we use a for loop to simply loop through each of the 11 elements of that array and
sum up the values in them.
And so if we had a perfect get random number method that we ran, let's say, 100 times to make sure
that the randomness gets a chance to kind of spread out, right?
Then you would expect that if you were to sum up all of the ones that we had put in all of the elements,
you should get it a 10 back out or currently the way it's written, you'd get 11 now because we're also
allowing for the zero with Element four right now.
Well, we'll limit that soon enough.
So we finished writing this test and we ran it and it gave us a one when we were expecting a 10, which
I thought was good because that represents the fact that currently a random number generator is giving
us a zero every single time.
So I think that's good.
So now we just need to go implement this get random number method to actually generate random numbers
right now.
One thing we want to be careful about when we're doing this kind of testing is you want to be careful.
Are you testing your code or are you testing someone else's code, right?
We can already pretty much assume that this could get random.
Number method is going to end up simply using one of the random number generation techniques that was
built into Java.
And one thing that you want to be careful of when writing unit tests is you don't generally want to
be writing unit tests for other people's code.
We tend to assume that especially code that comes from a framework or that is part of Java itself has
already been thoroughly tested, and we don't want to waste our time testing their code right.
We just want to test our code.
So what I would say we're really doing here is we don't want to be writing a test that's testing jobless
ability to generate random numbers.
Instead, we want to write a test that's testing our ability to utilize java's random number generation
for the purposes of our game.
OK.
There's a there's a certain distinction there, so just be careful about that.
All right.
So first thing I think I would do is to jump into this get random number method here, which is currently
hardcoded to just generate a zero every time.
And now we know that what we really want is for this method to generate a random number between one
and 10 inclusively, and we know how we can do that.
So we can use java's random class by creating an instance of a new brand which exists on the Java that
util package, right?
And then we'll need to import that.
Dot.
And then we can simply call next and.
But I will use the version of next extent that allows us to pass in an upper bound.
And if you recall this version that accepts an upper bound, that upper bound will not be inclusive.
So if I were to say 10, for example, then this method would be generating random numbers between zero
and nine.
Right, which is fine, because then what we can do is simply add one to it.
And so now we would be returning numbers between one and 10 inclusively.
OK, so next tent always will return numbers starting on the lower end with a zero.
And if you read the Java documentation, it says that distributed integer value between zero inclusively
and the specified value exclusive.
So we specify the 10.
But that would be exclusive, which means you're going to get back between zero and nine by default.
But then we just had one to shift that range up by one number to from one to 10.
Right.
And that might be all we need there.
So in fact, let's just run this whole entire thing again.
Now I can already anticipate we may have just broken one of the other test methods, but let's just
see what happens here.
OK, so we got one failing test.
First off, the random number generation test is is passing now, which means that this approach to
generate generating a random number is giving us an even enough spread that it is hitting all numbers
between one and 10.
I don't know how equally it's hitting them.
We're not tracking that with our tests, but we do know that all numbers between one and 10 are being
chosen eventually if you run it 100 times.
I'd be curious to play around with that test, by the way, in the future and reduce the number of times
that we run it from 100 and see what is the threshold at which you always get it like, do you have
to read it 20 times or 50 times or whatever?
That would be a curious little experiment for us to try to remember to come back to.
However, now we do have one test that is failing, and that is the test simple win situation.
So let's jump in to that test and see what is failing now.
And I was anticipating that something would fail because I knew the way that we wrote our implementations
wasn't very robust yet.
But let's see what we got here.
All right, so we're calling the get random number method, which we now know is truly generating a
random number between one and 10.
And then we make a guess by passing in that random number.
And I think I know what the problem is here.
So the test is correct, but our actual game logic is bad.
So if we jump over to this game, that gets massive here, so we will see that what's happening is first,
the test is calling this get random number and that is generate generating a random number for us between
one and 10.
And then the test is taking whatever that number was and passing it into this method here.
So let's say it was a three.
So then we're doing a guest number, which in this example would be a three, for example, we're saying
is three equal two and then we're calling the get random number method again.
And so that's going to generate another random number, which we may not necessarily be the same number
that we had before.
Right.
That's the problem here.
We're not retaining the randomly generated number that we generated the initial time.
And so this calls into question, OK, so how should we be generating random number?
Or maybe when should we be generating a random number?
And if you recall, when we were talking about using the setup method up here, I even mentioned maybe
we want to use this setup approach when we create a new guessing game so that we could be generating
a new random number every time this guessing game is created, right?
But we're not actually doing that yet.
Instead, what we're doing is we're just generating a new random number every time we call the get random
number method, right?
Even on the same game.
So we need to kind of deal with this now.
I intentionally put it off because the tests weren't forcing us to deal with it, but now I think they
kind of are.
So let's go back over here to this guess method here and decide, how do we want to handle this?
So what I'm kind of leaning towards is maybe we want to generate this random number only when we create
a new guessing game.
And if that is the case, then we could make a field for the guessing game that holds on to a random
number for the life of this guessing game object.
Now, I'm kind of thinking ahead a few steps and thinking that that could present some issues for the
way that we currently have written our random number generation test because currently it expects a
new random number every time we call this method here.
But one step at a time.
So let's see what happens if we introduce a field.
That represents our random numbers, so let's just say this is going to be a private.
And I think we'll go ahead and make it final, though we'll have to be careful with that.
I think they're going to be some potential ramifications to that and it'll be an integer and they'll
call it random number equals.
And then I think we can just take this bit right here and use it to initialize this.
This this value, this variable here.
All right.
And now this get random number method here.
Maybe what it should be doing now is simply returning that random number there.
OK.
Just like that.
And so now what this has the potential to do is when we create a new instance of this guessing game,
this random number is going to get generated right away.
Now we could also do this in a constructor, which would be a very appropriate way to do that.
But since this is just the one line thing here, we can do it in the declaration as well.
I'm OK to do it either way, for now, at least.
All right.
So we would create a new guessing game object or instance the random number would get generated.
The test would call the test that failed would call get random number first.
It would get this number, whatever it may be, and then pass that in.
And then the number that was generated here and the number that was passed then would be the same.
And so this bit here would be equal.
And then you would get this, you got it correct.
So I think that would cause this test to now pass, and we'll we'll check that in just a moment.
However, now our random number generation method is going to fail because it currently is expecting
that every time we call it get random number, we're going to get different numbers spread across 100
tries.
And currently, now that with this change, every time you get random number, you're going to get the
same random number every time.
So let's just run all these tests and see if I'm right.
So I think this test simple win situation is going to go back to working, but the random number generation
method is going to go back to failing.
All right.
So let's run all the tests and see.
Yep, that's exactly what happened, so now as simple one situation is back to working test, random
number generation is failing again.
But we know why.
All right.
So let's go look at this failing scenario.
So let's see here.
Yeah, right here is where we are generating our random number.
So we need to do this differently.
So one thing I'm thinking is that if we simply created a new game instance inside of this loop, then
call Get Random Number, we'd get a new random number every time.
Now, normally for these methods, we want to use this game field here.
But in this particular method, because of the way that we are now, only going to generate a random
number once per game by default, at least, we would either have to create a new game instance inside
of this loop every time, which we absolutely can do.
Or another way we could do it is we could create a new method, an additional method that regenerates
the random number, right, so we could do either one.
All right.
I think the way that I want to do this is to just create a new game.
And since each time within this loop and the reason I'm leaning towards that way versus having this
test call some new method like generate random number is because if we add a new method to generate
a number, then we will also have to make sure that that method gets called maybe like from a constructor
or something from each other method here, and we'd have to have a test that makes us do that.
And I think that might get a little more involved than I maybe want to get into right now.
So let's just see what this looks like if we simply create a new game.
Guessing game game equals new guessing game like, so now you may be wondering when we refer to this
game object here, which game object is it going to use?
Is it going to use this one here or is it going to use this one here?
Well, by default, Java is going to use the most local object you have.
Now I'm going to admit this isn't.
Some people might actually be uncomfortable with this type of coding that I'm doing here because I'm
allowing for a certain degree of ambiguity here.
Perhaps I should rename this object to something a little less ambiguous, like local game or something
along those lines.
Personally, I'm comfortable with it, but you do want to probably be careful when you have methods
that are creating local variables that have the same names as fields in your code.
OK.
Just be careful about doing that.
You will see some people when they want to refer to the field here.
What they will often do in that case is if if I wanted this game here to refer to the field, you might
see a lot of developers say this, that if I did this game, then that always will be referring to the
object because the word this means this whole entire object or kind of this class, right?
So you're saying I'm referring to the game variable that is a member, a direct member of this instance,
which is the entire class as opposed to the game.
And since that is local to this variable.
So that's one thing some you'll see a lot of code actually do, especially where there's ambiguity.
OK.
But for me, for right now, there's no ambiguity.
This game instance refers to this variable right here, which is very, very local.
All right.
So we're going to create a new instance of the guessing game 100 times, which is a little wasteful,
but it's OK for our unit test and that should in turn generate a new random number every single time.
So now if we rerun these tests, all of the tests, let's see what we get.
All right, very good, so everything is passing.
All right, now that we've got everything passing, let's try that little experiment that I mentioned
a bit ago.
Let's see what's the minimum number of times that we have to run this, that we have to generate the
game to get a good spread across one through 10?
So let's start with 10, which I seriously doubt it's going to be good enough.
And I'm just going to run only this one test yet, not quite good enough.
We expect that at 10:00, we've got an eight.
That's a pretty good spread, though, you know, 80 percent of the expected values were hit within
only 10 tries.
I'm kind of surprised that it was that high.
That tells me that maybe if we just went about 15, that probably would get it at least many, many
times, maybe not every time.
Let's see.
So I'm going to try.
15.
This is just a little fun to see how how well implemented is the random number generator.
How random is it, OK?
Getting closer got nine out of the 10 with a spread of 15.
OK, so let's try 20.
We run.
Mm hmm.
Okay.
Still not quite eight out of 10.
All right.
Try 30.
I think this will get it.
Oh, wow.
Still not quite there.
All right.
Forty.
All right, that got it for now.
I don't know the word for it to get it every single time.
So let me introduce you to another annotation of tests.
If you want to run a test multiple times, you can do that with a special annotation.
You can call repeated test, and all we have to do is specify how many times we want it to be repeated.
I don't know.
I'm going to start with five.
And by the way, this is another type of automated test, so you don't need both the test and the repeated
test, so we can actually get rid of the test if we want this to be repeated.
So if we run this now, it's going to actually rerun this test five times, and I just want to make
sure that is 40 really, truly enough.
Let's just run it five times with this value of 40 and see if it passes every single time so we can
rerun this.
Maybe we just got lucky with the number 40 the first time, for example.
Oh, look at that.
Yeah, yeah, it looks like 40 is pretty good, but not perfect so that we ran the test five times and
on the fourth time we only got nine out of 10 of our expected numbers.
So yeah, 40 isn't quite enough, apparently to consistently get it there.
So let's try 50.
And then let's rerun.
All right, so that gets it every single time.
Now I'm inclined to just increase this number to 10, and then I'll really be confident that we've got
the right number here with 50.
Yep, looks like we get it every time there.
All right.
So 50 seems to be roughly the magic number there.
And now that we have this number, I feel comfortable to roll this back down to just running at once,
which means I can just run the test and no, no value there at all.
And it's yeah.
So now let's just run all the tests again on the entire class.
All right.
So everything is still passing.
All right, so let's go ahead and end this lesson and we will flesh out more rules of the guessing game.
So I will see you in the next one.